# Aiptasia-symbiosome-analysis

## Description
This repository contains R code used to generate all figures and their underlying data from Maruyama et al. 2025 https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2025.10.09.679812v1.full

The repository also contains several additional control analyses done to assess the contribution of _Breviolum minutum_ peptides and the effect of database size to the results reported in the manuscript. These analyses and conclusions are described in detail in the Ambiguous_peptide_analysis_for_proteomics.md file.

## File and Folder descriptions
"Aiptasia Symbiosome analysis.Rproj" - The R Project file that manages the environment and working directory to perform analyses and generate figures.
"Data_analyses.rmd" - The R Markdown file that contains all code used to perform analyses and generate figures.
"Data_analyss.md" - The knit output from running the entirety of the R Markdown file. Opening this on Github will show you all of the code and the figures generated by each piece of code.
"README.md" - README document that you are reading right now.
"renv.lock" - captures the exact state of the R project and its dependencies.
"renv" - Contents of the R environment (packages and their versions) used to run these analyses.
"Inputs" - Contains all data files and tables used to perform all analyses and generate plots.
"Data_analyses_files" - All figures generated by R Markdown file.
"Ambiguous_peptide_analysis_for_proteomics.md" - A detailed description of several additional control analyses done to assess the contribution of _Breviolum minutum_ peptides and the effect of database size to the results reported in the manuscript. 
"XXXXX_output" - Folders that contain output files from proteomic analyses. Includes symbiosome-enriched protein lists from each analysis.
"protein_comparison_output.csv" - A comparison of all symbiosome-enriched proteins from each analyses. Annotates each protein with whether they were symbiosome-enriched in which analyses.

## Requirements for running the "Data_analyses.rmd" code
- R 4.3.3
- Bioconductor 3.18

## Setup
1. Install R 4.3.3 from https://cran.r-project.org
2. Open "Aiptasia Symbiosome analysis.Rproj" in R and run:
   install.packages("BiocManager")
   BiocManager::install(version = "3.18")
   install.packages("renv")
   renv::restore()
4. Open and knit the rmd file.

## To see summary of analysis
Please open "Data_analyses.md" on Github to see output from rmd file.
